# Example: Expanding the information

As we mentioned in the [example of the master plot](masterplot.md), it is now time to dig into your campaign, understanding its fine details. We started with a relatively simple master plot

> [Martin Hume-Chester] wants to invoke the [Beast of Sho'naii] to eliminate his rivals to the run the head of the [Conservative Party]

As you may have noticed, I linked some elements of the master plots. These are the elements of which I want to know more. To do that I will try and answer the 5 questions (What, Who, Where, When, How) for each element. The more you do, the more you will realise new elements to clarify will come out. You can underline them and expand them when ready.

## Martin Hume-Chester
[Martin Hume-Chester]: #martin-hume-chester
> Martin Hume-Chester is a young politician within the [Conservative Party]. His career started when he was still at university, where he excelled in his debating class and where he met his mentor, [Professor Franklin Holbert]. Martin wants to become the younger Prime Minister in history.
>
> His family is extremely wealthy, and he received the best education available in the United Kingdom. From his father [Henry Hume-Chester], Martin inherited his need to be the highest achiever and the disdain for the lower part of the society, while from his mother [Elizabeth Maybell-Holster], he inherited his sense of superiority.
>
> During his study at the University of Oxford, Martin got in touch with a cult, the [Kondradnert Kulte], which used dark rituals to evoke beasts from the nightmares. Martin found dark rituals something natural, and never left the cult.
>
> Martin became a force in the branch of students of the [Conservative Party]. His political stand has always placed him amongst the most controversial figures of the young generations of politicians. While many of his fellow students and political figure saw him as dangerous, part of the super-rich saw him as a mean of expanding and solidifying their economical power. His political career flourished only a few years after his graduation, when he was elected MP.
>
> A few years after graduating, Martin discovered a set of tomes, the [Tomes of Gold] which described a nightmare beast called the [Beast of Sho'naii]. This beast was described as an incorporeal beast bound to serve its caster, and able to transform its tail in gold for just one second. While everyone else who encountered the tome was interested in producing money out of it, Martin saw the possibility of using the beast as assassin, transforming the incorporeal beast's tail in gold while inside someone else's body.
>
> Martin grew obsessed with the Beast, but at the same time, he became one of the few people in the world to understand its potentiality.

As you can see, I let my imagination run wild. I tried to answer how many questions as I can about him, and by doing so I started creating an initial story. It is important to understand that I haven't yet written anything about the other elements, I will do that one after the other. For now I am focusing on Martin as the main element.

It is also important to understand that I can come back and revisit this part as many times as I like. In my experience this will happen every time I understand how different elements interact with this.

An advice on to writing an element. Try not to describe too many details which may pertain on other elements of the story. Everything regarding the Beast of Sho'naii will be written in the next part. Try to focus on one element at the time!

## Beast of Sho'naii
[Beast of Sho'naii]: #beast-of-shonaii

When I started writing the campaign, I had no idea how I would have based the idea of occult in the game. So I let my mind wander. Initially the Beast of Sho'naii was just a name. When I was writing about Martin, I gave more details, which allowed me to write this.

> The world is full of nightmares. While the vast majority dies when kids wake up, some of its power remains in free in the world. This power is like dust, which sails like the wind. While completely inerte in its state, it can be shaped by magic and used to evoke creatures which reflect powerful nightmares.
>
> The Beast of Sho'naii is one of these nightmares. It is an incorporeal entity which, from time to time, can shape itself as a semi-transparent daemon, with horns and a pointy tail. During these times, the Beast can transform its tail in pure gold for a few seconds. After these seconds, the tail returns to its original state of semi-transparency, before becoming incorporeal again.
>
> The Beast, as every other entity generated by nightmares, feeds itself with fear. A Beast's life is dedicated to inspire fear and live from it.
>
> The Beast can be evoked with a complex and dangerous ritual, but the Beast will obey every order of its caster without questions.

Ok, so now we know a bit more about the Beast of Sho'naii. Do I think what I wrote is enough? I don't think so. I feel that I need to expand more to understand its motives and drives better. I also want to know more about the link between the Beast and the [Kondradnert Kulte] as well as the [Tomes of Gold].

Please note that every time I describe a new entity, I just make a note to write something about it, and I will expand it later. This phase of the campaign creation is the most important, and it is the one which will take away the longest. The more you write here, the easier it will be to write adventures which are going to be unique!

## Conservative Party
[Conservative Party]: #conservative-party

I mentioned that [Martin Hume-Chester] was part of the Conservative Party. Now, this is an example on how an entity in my story may be short and simple.

> The Conservative Party is one of the major political parties in the United Kingdom. Its current leader is Boris Johnson, but its leadership is in doubt. There are few other MPs who want to challenge his leadership. One of these is [Martin Hume-Chester].

Don't waste time describing elements which are not clear already, or that are self explanatory.

## Professor Franklin Holbert
[Professor Franklin Holbert]: #professor-franklin-holbert

Another question you should ask yourself is: is a non-player character relevant to the story I want to run? Sometimes I write elements which make sense in the general history, but have no relevance to the campaign itself. This is one of those; however, I will still spend some time noting why I wrote something about him, as it may become important during one of the adventures of the campaign.

> Franklin Holbert is a professor of economics at the University of Oxford. He is well known for his far-right views, his support for extremes capitalism, his association with the most right wing part of the Conservative Party and his friendship with [Arthur Throms], one of the richest person in Britain.

As you can see, I have mentioned a new non-player character. I think that Holbert may play an interesting role of connection between [Martin Hume-Chester] and a group of super-rich people who are going to support him. I still don't know where this is going, but I am sure I will expand it, if it will feel as an integral part of the story underlying the campaign.

## Tomes of Gold
[Tomes of Gold]: #tomes-of-gold

I never know when an interesting idea will struck, and therefore I never decide beforehand if an element of the campaign is important or not. This removes some pressure from my creative flow. In some cases, like in this one, some elements will gain more relevance as I write.

> The Tomes of Gold are a series of five books which describe how to invoke the [Beast of Sho'naii]. These five books were originally a single book, but [Aaron Synclair], the original writer in 1850, realised the dangers of the beast, and decided to hide his discovery. While the book still exists, as Synclair was too attached to it, he split its content in five separate tomes, which he dispersed in different locations around the world.
>
> Each of the first three tomes describe a part of the invocation, while the last two details how to keep the Beast loyal and well fed. The tomes describe in details every detail, in all their gruesomeness.
>
>The tomes are written in Latin, with parts in Greek and parts in French. Synclair was paranoid about it, so he tried to make them very difficult to read and decipher.

One of the interesting thing I can explore is: what if [Martin Hume-Chester] only has four tomes, and just realised that he is missing one of them. Who has it, how can he know about its owner and how can he get hold of it? All these questions and information comes in very handy for one of the adventures I am going to write. You will notice that I haven't written this it in [Martin Hume-Chester]'s profile, as you are reading this as I am writing, and I want to give you an overview of how to produce great content step by step!

##Kondradnert Kulte
[Kondradnert Kulte]: #kondradnert-kulte

## Henry Hume-Chester
[Henry Hume-Chester]: #henry-hume-chester

## Elizabeth Maybell-Holster
[Elizabeth Maybell-Holster]: #elizabeth-maybell-holster

## Arthur Throms
[Arthur Throms]: #arthur-throms

## Aaron Synclair
[Aaron Synclair]: #aaron-synclair